Student Consultant Handbook 
PAGE 3 
The Computer Lab Student Consultant 
Student Computer Lab Consultants are part-time Behrend Information Tech
nology Services (BITS) staff members who provide first line operational and 
technical support for lab users and owners of personal laptop or desktop 
computers, tablets, and cell phones.  Additionally, they provide telephone 
troubleshooting for off campus residents, and support for faculty and staff 
member’s home computers.  
Student Consultants are required to: 
• Conduct themselves in a mature, professional manner at all times 
• Abide by the posted schedule  
• Ensure that their nametag is worn at all times while working. 
• Be responsive to requests for assistance and provide exceptional cus
tomer service 
• Be courteous to their coworkers by only taking short personal breaks 
• Cooperate and interact with all BITS staff members to ensure consistent 
levels of support 
• Enforce all policies and take appropriate corrective action as needed 
• Always arrive prepared for work and not be under the influence of any 
substance.  Failure to abide by this policy will result in immediate remov
al from the schedule pending a meeting with Behrend Information Tech
nology Services management.  Continued employment may require ongo
ing support provided by the Behrend Personal Counseling office.  Stu
dent Affairs and University Police and Public Safety will also be notified, 
depending on the nature of the infraction.  
• Use only prescribed or appropriate over-the-counter medications. These 
must be administered exclusively as recommended by the manufacturer 
or medical professional.  
Payroll  
Prior to the start of work, all prescribed onboarding activities outlined by the 
HR office at University Park must be completed.  Once these are in place and 
a Consultant reports for work, time tracking is provided by a web-based time 
clock which is the basis for time entry into the Workday payroll system.  
The following tutorial will assist you in the daily operation of the time clock 
and payroll systems.  
Electronic Time Tracking System 
Time Clock 
PAGE 4 
In addition to recording your time worked in Workday, all Consultants must 
also manually punch in-and-out at: https://ithelp.bd.psu.edu/time-clock  
Use your time clock punch records to enter your time worked in Workday. 
The site will resemble figure 1 below. Log-in with your UserID and Password, 
and clock in/out at appropriate times.   
This site is how every consultant/Restech/technician verifies the shifts they 
work. Punctuality is important, and if there are significant discrepancies be
tween the time clock punch report and what is submitted to Workday, some
one (faculty or staff) will have to verify that you were onsite.  The time clock 
system is your proof of working  Please use it carefully and consistently to 
ensure accurate payroll processing. 
Figure 1. 
Recording Time Worked 
To record your time for payroll purposes, go to: worklion.psu.edu and login 
with your Penn State access account. Then click the Workday link on the left 
column of the screen.  Once at the Workday screen, click on the All Apps link 
to display a series of action icons.  See Figure 2 for an example. 
Figure 2.  
PAGE 5 
Select the Time icon.  You will then see a ’calendar view’ grid that will allow 
you to enter your time worked.  Enter your worked time for the day based 
upon the hours recorded in the Time Clock system. Be sure to provide the 
proper AM/PM designations.  Do not click the Review button at the bottom 
right of the screen...only do this at the end of the two week pay period.  
Failure to complete your time submission at the end of the two week pay peri
od will result in you not receiving your pay when expected.   
Operational notes 
Payroll Report 
Clicking on the Pay icon in Figure 2 will allow you to view pay stubs and other 
information about your earnings. 
Payroll Processing 
Payday is the second Friday of each two-week pay period. 
Your pay is determined by the number of hours you entered into the Workday 
system, and that are verified by your time clock punches.  
It’s your responsibility to make sure that all punches are entered accurately 
into the time clock system and these hours are transferred into Workday.  
Corrections will be the extreme exception.  You are in charge of managing 
your time worked and the submission of your time at the end of the two-week 
pay periods.  Time clock reports must closely match what’s submitted into 
Workday. Failure to submit your time will result in an interruption of your nor
mal pay cycle.   
Why it matters 
Accurate attendance records speed the payroll process and ensure that 
you’re paid what you expected.  Consultants who are “on-time” for the start of 
their shifts (especially the Opening shifts), ensure that our customer service 
goals are met and the labs are ready for use 100% of the time.   Those Con
sultants who have class immediately after a Help Desk shift are permitted to 
leave a few minutes early in order to get to class on time.  Those who have 
class immediately prior to a shift should make every effort to get to work in a 
timely manner.    
Consultant Schedules 
PAGE 6 
The Consultant Schedule is in effect throughout an entire semester.  A new 
schedule is created for finals weeks and semester breaks or anytime when 
there are no classes but Penn State Behrend is still open and the Service 
Desk is staffed (Spring break, Thanksgiving week, the days before Christmas 
and after New Years, etc). 
Student Consultants are responsible for their scheduled shifts.  If you know in 
advance that you cannot work a shift due to a test, appointment, traveling, 
illness, etc, you can arrange for a temporary substitute or shift switch as long 
as: 
• The Consultant accepting your shift doesn’t exceed 24 hours worked for 
the week or 8 hours worked in one day.  
• An email note is sent to the Consultant taking the shift, the Consultant 
who works prior to the changed shift, and the Service Desk IT Manager. 
• The replacement Consultant’s name is written into the weekly schedule 
binder located at the Hammermill Service Desk.   
If you (or your substitute) fail to report for work, each will be issued a Critical 
Incident Statement..  Reception of 3 statements, regardless of reason, will be 
grounds for removal from the Consultant schedule. 
Seek a substitute/switch as early as possible...it may take a few days for oth
er Consultants to receive and respond to the request.  If no one responds, 
contact the Service Desk IT Manager at least 24 hours prior to the shift. 
If extraordinary circumstances (e.g. death in the family, sudden illness, car 
trouble) prevent you from reporting for your shift, contact the Service Desk IT 
Manager as soon as possible.  Never leave the Service Desk unstaffed or fail 
to notify your supervisor of your absence…..we’ll work out something.     
Schedule locations 
Consultant schedules are kept out of sight in 3-ring binder found in the Ham
mermill Service Desk overhead cabinets.  Note that there are currently two 
Hammermill teams that are scheduled simultaneously.   
Consultants should never give out the schedule of a co-worker.  If someone 
asks when another Consultant works, simply provide that Consultant’s email 
address to the person who’s asking.  A statement like: ”I can’t give out Pete’s 
schedule information, but I can give you his email address and you can con
tact him that way…..” could be used.    
Why would we recommend such a procedure?   
Service Desk Service Counter 
PAGE 7 
The Hammermill Service Desk Service Counter is the Student Consultant’s 
primary duty station. Consultants should be present there throughout their 
scheduled shifts as much as possible.  Please take short personal breaks, 
and return from supporting lab equipment or users as quickly as possible. 
Homework or study “guests” are allowed behind the Service Desk. They must 
not interfere with the conduction of business or disrupt the professional 
environment of the facility.  Its every Consultant’s responsibility to ensure 
guest policies are followed and enforced.  
Counter Computers 
The computers Hammermill Service Desk PC’s are made available to:  
•  assist users with software questions  
•  provide a training tool for Consultants  
•  confirm network, server, or printing problems 
•  provide Consultants with resources to perform academic research, 
special assignments or complete homework 
Files should never be stored on these machines, and programs should never 
be installed.  Unauthorized files or programs will be deleted.   
Computer Lab Maintenance and Security 
Periodically, Student Consultants should do a walk-through of the labs, 
looking for and correcting policy violators, arranging chairs and equipment, 
discarding any trash, noting damaged or inoperative equipment, and ensuring 
that each lab is providing the same high quality environment throughout the 
day as was available at 8:00 AM.  Walk-throughs can be conducted hourly, 
between scheduled classes, or as the need arises.  The last Consultant to 
staff the Service Desk should also do a “closing” walk-though to get the 
facility ready for the next day.  In particular, printer paper should be filled at 
closing time in all areas that feature 24/7 access (the H-135 Cyber Lounge, 
Witkowski Food Court/Science Complex and all Burke Center printing 
locations ….both public and Engineering).  With only the Hammermill Desk 
being staffed daily, the Senior Consultants will need to keep watch over the 
Burke Center  and Reed building printers.  The only remaining printer in the 
Library is being maintained by Library staff using BITS provided supplies. If 
someone from the Library contacts the Hammermill Service Desk with a 
supply need, please accommodate them, or at least let the Service Desk IT 
Manager know.   
Policies and Procedures 
PAGE 8 
All lab users must follow the University’s AD-95 Information Assurance and IT 
Security policy found at https://policy.psu.edu/policies/ad95.  Also, review and 
become familiar with the local Behrend IT lab policies, found here:  https://
 behrend.psu.edu/general-services/information-technology-services/public-labs/
 public-lab-policies 
Enforcement is mandatory and should be conducted as follows: - 1st. Violation:  Politely inform the lab user of the infraction and ask them to 
stop. - 2nd Violation:  Politely remind the lab user of the infraction and ask them to 
stop. -3rd Violation:  Inform the lab user that you are notifying an IT Manager and/or 
University Police and Public Safety of the infraction.   
Due to the casual nature of the Hammermill 135 Cyber Lounge, food is allowed 
in this area.  All other computer lab environments do not allow food and should 
have this policy strictly enforced.   Because shifts often overlap with lunch and 
dinner times, Consultants may have food at the Hammermill Service Desk.  
BITS does not provide or sell removable storage media for temporary use. 
Unauthorized files are deleted from hard drives daily.  All lab users must supply 
removable storage media or use their assigned network or cloud storage space
 (s).   
All in-lab directory and bulletin boards are solely for the use of Behrend 
Information Technology Services.  There is a public bulletin board area 
immediately across the hall from the Hammermill Service Desk that clubs, 
organizations, or the general student population may use. This policy applies to 
all non-Hammermill labs as well.  
The Service Desk telephone is for faculty and BITS staff use.  Consultants must 
not use this phone for personal calls as its provided for business purposes only.   
Always politely answer the phone with something similar to: “Penn State 
Behrend Information Technology Services.  This is (your name) speaking.  How 
may I help you? 
If someone calls and requests to speak to a user in the labs, politely tell them 
that the Service Desk phone is for business use only and that you cannot relay 
information or take personal messages for lab users.  If its an emergency, 
suggest the caller hang up and dial 911 from their location.   
Calls for staff members should be transferred to their extensions.  You must dial 
their full 10-digit number during the transfer process.    
BITS staff member’s extensions are available near the Service Desk phone as 
well as inside the back cover of this book.  Be sure to add “814-898-” to the 
listed extension when transferring or calling a staff member directly.  
Lost and Found Procedures 
PAGE 9 
The Hammermill Service Desk is prepared for user-generated lost and found 
articles.  Recovered items are recorded in the lost and found log found in the 
Hammermill Desk’s overhead cabinets above the lost and found storage area.  
Please have an item’s owner indicate in the log when they’ve reclaimed it.  
Items of $25.00 value or greater should be recorded in the log book and 
University Police and Public Safety (UPPS) should be alerted for an immediate 
pick-up.  The lost and found storage area is emptied of low value items as 
needed with collected articles being picked up and inventoried by UPPS staff. 
Opening and Closing the Service Desk 
Hammermill Service Desk opening Consultants are scheduled to arrive at 
8:00 AM... Opening and closing duties are posted at the Service Desk area 
and opening procedures must be completed prior to beginning any personal 
activity/homework.  Closing procedures should be followed to ‘set up’ the 
morning staff and ensure that overnight users have a positive experience.  
Consultants can card swipe into the Hammermill Service Desk as early as 
7:15 AM.  The Hammermill 139 and 143 doors, as well as the Nick and 
Witkowski lab doors, will unlock electronically at 7:30 AM.   
At the scheduled closing time, lab users in non-24/7 environments must 
leave.  These areas include the Hammermill 139 and 143 labs, and the 
Library 6 and Library 201 labs.  As closing time approaches it is advised to 
give verbal notification to all users that the lab will close in X minutes.  
Anyone who wants to continue to utilize the BITS lab resources should be 
asked to move to a 24-hour access area.  Consultants can stay up to 15 
minutes after the scheduled Service Desk closing time to lock up and perform 
end-of-day tasks. 
PAGE 10 
Network Disk Space 
In the computer labs and at kiosk locations, Microsoft’s OneDrive online stor
age will connect upon log-in.  This is a synched data resource, and it behaves 
differently than a truly mapped drive.  For example, students should check 
their file synch status prior to logging off their computer. If their work has not 
fully synched, any changes made during their current computing session will 
be lost.  Its suggested that a flash drive be carried to safely store files that 
have not synched and when a student cannot wait for the synch process to 
complete. Additionally, if a file synch is interrupted by a log-off, the next log-on 
will see a message pop up asking to “Restore’ or ‘Delete’ files.  Please just X 
out this page and continue on.   
Lab Reservations 
Ad-hoc (i.e. one time or non-full semester) public computer lab reservations 
are processed through the CollegeNet/25Live central reservation utility.  Only 
faculty, faculty sponsored organizations, the Workforce Development office 
and the Learning Resource Center (LRC) may reserve labs for instructional 
purposes using the CollegeNet system.  Student requests for a computer lab 
reservations will be denied and a sponsoring faculty member must resubmit. 
All reservations must be approved by BITS staff.  If someone approaches a 
Help Desk and needs to place a lab reservation, please direct them to the 
CollegeNet web site, found at:  https://25live.collegenet.com/pro/psu#!/
 Access Accounts 
Every Penn State faculty member, staff member, or student, receives an Access 
Account.  Each account consists of a unique User ID and a Password which is 
set during the account activation and retrieval process.  Access Accounts grant 
the account holder access to the full array of University on-line services.  All 
accounts are generated at the University Park campus.  For students, Access 
Account User ID’s are retrieved and Passwords are set during their admission 
process.  For more information about Access Accounts visit the Accounts page 
at UP at: https://accounts.psu.edu. 
Other Access Account thoughts: -Users are held accountable for adherence to all applicable policies (see policy 
AD-95) upon completion of the account retrieval process.     -Passwords can be changed at the accounts.psu.edu web page.   -A user who forgets their Password can “reset” it by visiting https://
 accounts.psu.edu/password/forgot -Account holders who get locked out (as confirmed on the DIMC screen, see 
page 11), must call the University Park campus for assistance.  Phone 814-865
4357.  
Access Account / Appropriate Use 
The following statement should be considered re: lab computers: 
“Use of this computer workstation indicates agreement and adherence to Penn
sylvania State University Policy AD-95 that governs  Access Account, computer, 
and information network utilization.  Account holders must use their privileges 
only for the purpose for which they were intended and must not engage in view
ing, transmitting, or making accessible offensive, obscene or harassing materi
als.  Failure to abide by the provisions of this policy may result in sanctions up to 
and including suspension of Access Account privileges,  judicial review, and/or 
expulsion.”  
Consultants who witness inappropriate PC activity must advise the user to im
mediately cease their actions.  Report the problem to the Service Desk IT Man
ager and include the following information:  Date, time, lab number, and work
station ID.  Do not ask the student for their name, User ID, etc. 
Access Account timelines:   
• Access Accounts fully activate just prior to a freshman students’ New Stu
dent Orientation session.  Access to higher level functions (email, Lionpath) 
will not be available until this activation occurs.   
• Access to PSU resources will gradually expire upon separation or gradua
tion.  See this page for details:  https://security.psu.edu/services/penn
state-accts/after-i-leave/   
Never respond to email messages that request Access Account or email account 
credential verification and submission.  Report messages of this nature to: 
phishing@psu.edu 
Student access account passwords will expire after their first year of classes.  
When they reset them, they’ll be creating a ‘lifetime password’.  Special care 
should be taken to ensure that the password or pass phrase that’s selected is a 
strong as possible.  Visit: https://security.psu.edu/services/penn-state-accts/
 passwords/choose/    for more details.  
Digital Identity Management Center (DIMC)  
All Consultants will be granted limited access to the Digital Identity Manage
ment Center (https://dimc.psu.edu) screen once the required training is com
pleted.  
Obtaining this access is a MANDATORY requirement of a Consultant as the 
data provided by this resource can streamline or guide a troubleshooting 
process. 
This process is currently under review.  If you need DIMC access, please alert 
the IT Service Desk manager. 
DIMC will display a User’s Access Account User ID, their PSU ID number, and 
their account status (active/blocked/locked/etc.) among other data.  All infor
mation shown on this page should be kept strictly confidential.   
PAGE 12 
Trouble Ticket System 
BITS equipment problems (this includes the lab computers, kiosks, and tech
nology classroom podium computers) should be reported at the 
behrend.psu.edu/ithelp site.  (All lab and Help Desk computers also have a 
Tech Help shortcut icon that takes you to the /ithelp site). 
Select the appropriate support category, and fill out the resulting form as 
completely as possible, providing specific information about the nature of the 
problem.  If necessary, use an adjacent computer or your phone to complete 
the ticket. Printer paper jams should be cleared, and basic troubleshooting 
(checking cables, rebooting, etc.) should be performed prior to submitting a 
trouble report and placing an out of order tag on the affected piece of equip
ment.   
Residence Hall Network support is provided by the Residence Hall Network 
Help Desk staff who work out of the Hammermill building.  ResTechs work 
hand-in-hand with Help Desk Consultants to provide support for our on
campus residents.  All calls for support should be directed to the 814-217
4357 number.  Online requests for support will use the a similar reporting 
method as the computer labs...simply browse to the ’Student’ category at the 
Behrend.psu.edu/ithelp page and then select Residence Hall Students.  
Laser Printers 
Student accessible black and white laser printers are available in many loca
tions across campus with most printer locations supporting a variety of adja
cent spaces. This reduces our printer ‘footprint’, minimizes upkeep and li
censing costs, and helps Behrend ITS align its printing resources with an ever 
decreasing student need.  Each printer is connected to the Pharos Uniprint 
system, each print job is tabulated by this system, and students are charged 
5 cents per page after they’ve exceeded our pre-established ‘free print’ 
threshold of 100 pages per semester.  The Pharos system also provides for 
‘mobile printing’ from a phone, tablet, or laptop.  Visit https://
 uniprint.bd.psu.edu to upload and print a document from a mobile device.  
Visit this page for a list of mobile print locations:  https://behrend.psu.edu/
 general-services/information-technology-services/public-labs/mobile-printing 
Color printers are provided in the Hammermill 135 lab and at the Burke First 
Floor Print Station.  Each color page of paper processed by these printers 
costs 15 cents.   
Printer paper should be checked at the start of the day, as needed through
out the day, and at closing time.  Please keep the Hammermill 135 Service 
Desk “under counter” paper supply well stocked.  Additional cases of paper 
as well as replacement toner cartridges are found in the Computer Center’s H-134a storeroom adjacent to the Hammermill Help Desk.   
PAGE 13 
BITS staff home and cell phone numbers are posted inside the front of each 
Help Desk’s schedule binder and on the trouble escalation flow chart. These 
numbers are for BITS emergency use only and should never be given out.  If 
a situation merits an after hours call to a staff member, please don’t 
hesitate.   
Emergency Procedures 
Each building has designated staff who are Building Emergency Evacuation 
Plan (BEEP) coordinators.  In the event of a building evacuation emergency, 
these staff members will provide direction to the building’s occupants and 
coordinate with EMS personnel any special evacuation needs, entrapment 
reports, or other issues.  After normal staff hours (typically, 8—5), 
Consultants will be responsible for evacuating the facilities immediately 
adjacent to the Hammermill Service Desk location.  
In the event of a fire alarm, or upon the advice of Police and Safety, Campus 
Administration, or any staff member,  announce to the users present in the 
labs that everyone needs to leave through the nearest exit.  Lab users should 
be asked to take their personal belongings with then.  Quickly check that 
everyone has left the labs and exit the building yourself.  If the situation is so 
severe that your personal safety is in jeopardy, (for example, you see smoke 
or flames, or there's an explosion, active shooter, etc, ) make the evacuation 
announcement and quickly exit the building (“Everyone needs to get out 
NOW’ will suffice).  
Situations involving irate lab users, individuals making threatening remarks 
(i.e. bomb threats), the presence of any weapon (see Policy SY12 at the 
GURU site), or any situation requiring Emergency medical or Police services 
(i.e. upon entering a lab you discover vandalism, theft etc), immediately call 
Penn State Behrend Police Services at  “911” or X6101. 
Never attempt to resolve an out of control situation.  Alert Police Services 
and they’ll respond to your area.     
In an active shooter  situation... an armed person who has used deadly physical force 
on other persons continues to do so while having unrestricted access to additional 
victims."  
                                          
                                                Penn State StaySAFE:   
 
                                   Search for an Exit 
                                   Alert the Authorities  
                                   Find a place to Hide 
                                   End the Threat 
 
Staff Home Phone Numbers 
Special Services  -  Software Distribution 
The BITS Help Desks are Behrend’s support centers for software provided at 
no additional charge to the campus community. 
Users can visit https://softwarerequest.psu.edu to ’order’ a variety of 
software titles relevant to their studies.  Requests are placed and within 24 
hours an email is received that includes additional instructions.  
Students and faculty can also obtain Microsoft software through Penn State’s 
Azure Dev Tools program.  Visit https://azureforeducation.microsoft.com/
 devtools. Click the sign-in link and provide your PSU access account 
credentials and your cell phone number. 
Software purchases can be made through Penn State via the  http://
 software.psu.edu site.  All prices feature educational discounts.  
Students also have access to Microsoft Office365 at office365.psu.edu. 
Through Office365, email, office productivity software, team building apps, 
and online storage are all available at no extra cost.    
Personal Computer Support 
Consultants at the Hammermill Service Desk can expect to work on student 
and faculty/staff personal computers.  This service is offered at no additional 
charge and typically involves troubleshooting and correcting software 
issues……...installing OS updates, antivirus software and anti-spyware 
programs as well as removing viruses, spyware etc.   Users who have been 
‘locked out’ by UP due to a personal computer security compromise can visit 
the Hammermill desk for a complete hard drive format and OS re-install.  
Consultants will carefully back-up data, music, and photos, and restore them 
when the OS work is completed. Hardware troubleshooting is also performed; 
if a defective component is localized on a computer, and the owner provides 
replacement parts, Help Desk Consultants will assist with the installation.  
Never perform invasive diagnostics or repairs on computers still under 
manufacturer warranty. Please involve the Service Desk IT Manager prior to 
making replacement part recommendations to the computer owner; we want 
to be very sure that we’re providing the student with accurate replacement 
part information.   
Always submit a fully completed SNOW Drop Off ticket using the link provided 
at the Teams site and the paper form at the Service Desk counter.  Make sure 
the owner signs off on the Device Drop-off Authorization form and provides 
the requested password and PIN information.  
Portable Document Cameras 
The Hammermill Service Desk has a portable document camera available for 
lend to faculty and staff on a ’one-day-at-a-time-basis’.  This device and sign
out form is stored in the cabinetry above the Service Desk’s Technician 
counter.   
PAGE 15 
Non-Hammermill Computer Lab Support 
Behrend Information Technology Services supports a variety of computer 
lab environments outside of the immediate Hammermill complex.    
“Decentralized’ labs that are the responsibility of BITS include Nick 156, 
Witkowski 109, Library 6, Library 201, Kochel 77, Burke 153, Burke 175 
and Burke 176, which are all public labs.  Additionally, the following 
School of Engineering labs are also supported:  Burke 007, Burke 008, 
Burke 011, Burke 012,  Burke 013, Burke 014, Burke 015, Burke 111, 
Burke 140, Burke 146, Burke 147, Burke 148, and Burke 151. Smaller 
specialized labs in the Schools of Engineering and Science will require 
periodic BITS maintenance; typically this includes equipment cleaning, 
component replacements, and yearly software reloads.   
All lab or classroom computer and A/V device issues should be reported 
via the IT Support Request link: https://behrend.psu.edu/ithelp.  All trou
bleshooting, out-of-order tagging, and trouble-ticket submission proce
dures that are in place in the Hammermill labs carry over to these outlying 
facilities.     
An additional large number of School of Engineering (SOE) and School of 
Science satellite machines are distributed throughout the Burke Center 
and School of Science complexes.  These are not the responsibility of the 
Consultants and will be maintained by BITS staff members and Student 
Technicians.  All requests for service on these computers should also be 
submitted via the IT Support Request link.       
Policies and procedures that are in place in the Hammermill labs are also 
in effect in the outlying labs; the exception being that some faculty allow 
food in the instructional SOE labs.  
Outlying west campus labs have been included on the Computer Lab 
Cleaning Schedule that is posted at the Hammermill Service Desk.   
Why is cleaning important?   
PAGE 16 
Student Consultant Orientation 
Program 
The following pages contain the Penn State Behrend Student Consultant Ori
entation Program.  Module 1 of this program consists of the topics covered in 
the handbook section on the previous pages.  The first item in the Training 
Program is the Module 1 test, which helps you determine your strengths and 
weaknesses concerning the topics covered in this Handbook segment.   
Succeeding modules follow a similar format.     
Student Consultant Orientation 
Module 1 test - Consultant Handbook Topics 
1. Which of the following is the proper procedure if you have forgotten to 
record your time on Workday at the end of your shift? 
A) Don’t worry about it, they all know my schedule and will fix it. 
B) I’ll record my hours the next day that I work.   
C) They don’t need to know exactly when I worked. 
D) I’ll visit the Workday site and in the Time category calendar field, 
enter my time worked as reflected by the Time Clock punch in/
 punch out sequence.  
2.  
When indicating my semester availability, I should: 
A) Put down available times that I’m not sure of, just to make sure I get 
lots of hours. 
B) Put down available times that won’t last the entire semester. 
C) Put down available times that conflict with my class/lab schedules. 
D) Carefully reference my class, work, family, and recreational sched
ules and mark myself as available only during those times that I can 
commit to for the entire semester. 
3. Access Accounts: 
A) Are created and distributed by Behrend ITS 
B) Are only given to those who ask for one.  
C) Provide limited access to University resources 
D)     Are created and distributed by UP.  
E)     
F)     
Never expire.  
None of the above. 
 
      
Student Consultant Orientation 
Module 1 test (cont.) 
 
 
4. Students who’s files have not fully synched with One Drive upon starting 
to log-off: 
A) Should contact the Hammermill Service Desk 
B) Should submit a work order request. 
C) Should see the BITS Administrative Assistant. 
D) Should see their academic advisor. 
E) Should copy their recently edited files to a flash drive so they can 
get logged-off and on their way.  
 
5. The Hammermill Service Desk telephone should be used: 
A) By faculty, BITS staff, and Consultants, only. 
B) By anyone needing a phone. 
C) For on-campus calls only. 
D) By Consultants only. 
E) Who needs phones? We’ll just use Teams… 
F) A and E. 
 
6. Free software provided by Penn State: 
A) Can be obtained by any member of the Behrend community. 
B) Can be obtained only by faculty and staff. 
C) Is available only to students. 
D) Is available at https://softwarerequest.psu.edu 
E) A and D. 
 
7. Daily support for the non-Hammermill computer labs/printers 
         A)  Is provided by School of Engineering staff 
         B)  Will be provided by BITS staff members/Senior Consultants 
         C)  Doesn’t require the use of BD IT Support Requests. 
         D)  Is never needed.  
          
8. Out of control situations: 
A) Should be ignored until things calm down. 
B) Should be handled by the Consultant(s) on duty. 
C) Are the responsibility of the Service Desk IT Manager. 
D) Should be handled by Police Services.  Dial 911 
 
9. Lost and found items greater that $25.00 in value: 
A) Should be sold at the first opportunity. 
B) Should be logged in the lost and found book and placed in the lost 
and found storage area. 
C) Are never found in the labs. 
D) Should be logged in the lost and found book and Police Services 
staff should be notified for a pick-up.  
 
 
PAGE 18 
Student Consultant Orientation  
Module 2   
The General Electric Foundation Computer Center is located on the top 
(first) floor of the Hammermill Building and is home to the Behrend Infor
mation Technology Services (BITS) staff.  Consisting of 3 labs within Ham
mermill, as well as our primary server room and a series of offices, the Com
puter Center is the hub for all IT support on campus.   
The Hammermill 135 Cyber Lounge includes 26 public workstations, a high 
high-volume black and white printer, a color laser printer, a phone/tablet 
charging stand, dual overhead LCD TV’s, wide screen monitors, cold drink 
vendor, and 24/7 access.  This lab is also adjacent to our Hammermill Ser
vice Desk that’s staffed by Consultants and features a Technician Service 
area.  The Hammermill 139 lab which seats 16 is located off of H-135, and is 
an instructional/seminar lab, available for reservation by members of faculty 
for class-time use or by staff for training seminars.  H-139 features a facing 
forward environment suitable for a variety of instructional or seminar activi
ties.   Hammermill 143 (35 seats) is also available for reservation and is 
across the corridor from the Hammermill Service Desk and is used heavily for 
typical class time work.  
In the absence of full time staff, Consultants should always document a facul
ty or staff caller or walk-up client in the SNOW ticketing system.  If the prob
lem is immediately resolved, an ‘Interaction’ ticket should be entered to docu
ment the client contact.  If the problem is unresolved,  submit an Incident 
ticket from the Behrend.psu.edu/ithelp site.  
Also, always know who your client is by asking:  Are you a faculty member, 
staff member, or a student?  This will help determine to what extent the Ser
vice Desk  student staff can provide immediate assistance, AND help the 
Consultant to pick the correct category at the /ithelp site to report the issue. 
BITS is organized as follows:  Jim Serafin is the overall Director of the IT sup
port operation. He oversees BITS staff members, monitors the daily operation 
of our computer labs and the on-campus information networks, participates 
in the design and implementation of new learning spaces and staff areas, 
and coordinates research, special projects and new initiatives.  
These staff members report to Jim: 
Kiara Copeland is the BITS Administrative Assistant.  She provides general 
office services, submits work orders into the SNOW system, oversees all pay
roll preparations, develops digital sign slides, tracks all BITS budgets, and 
coordinates all BITS equipment purchases, among other things! 
Jason Artello is our Network Systems Specialist providing support for the en
tire campus network as well as filling the role of a remote support technician 
for the Enterprise Networking and Communication Services Office (ENCS) at  
UP.    
Shawn Alexander and Nick Scott are Systems Analysts who manage staff and 
faculty servers and create desktop environments. Shawn and Nick also devel
op unique solutions for complex support requests from all members of the 
campus and University community, coordinate our security response and 
manage our web presence.  
John Praetzel is our Auxiliary Systems Analyst who handles security, telepho
ny, monitoring of building support equipment and other miscellaneous sys
tems.  He is also part of the classroom rapid response team when problems 
arise that will impact instruction or presentations.  
Nick Silka is an IT Manager who oversees our faculty, staff, research, and 
instructional environment support. His staff includes Scott Smith, Michelle 
Newcomb, and Ken Mason.  Scott and Michelle’s offices are located in H
137.  Ken has offices in both Hammermill 141 and Burke 010. 
These analysts and technicians, along with our Student Consultants, provide 
hardware and software support for our students, our classroom and lab tech
nology, and audio / visual and video conferencing equipment and related 
areas.   
Other spaces of interest in the Computer Center building include the Ham
mermill server room, the 134A office supply storeroom, the H-140 system set
up room, the H-130D storeroom, and the H-130B and H-130C Conference 
Rooms. 
The Hammermill server room is found in H-136.  This area houses our re
maining on-site server units,  “hot swappable” spares, pools of Weblabs com
puters, and small workbench areas.  
The H134A office supply storeroom is located immediately adjacent to the 
Hammermill Service Desk.  It contains paper and toner for use in the BITS 
labs, our Technician desk computer storage cabinet, and a desk area for our 
Residence Hall Network Technicians.   
The H-140 set up room is a dedicated area for staff to prepare new or rebuilt 
computers for deployment to lab and office locations.   
Located in the H-130 office suite, the H-130D storeroom contains a variety 
general office supplies….staples, paperclips, pens, folders, etc.   
The H-130B meeting room contains seating for up to 6 and is called our 
‘huddle room’.  Its often used as a sand-box like environment where BITS 
staff can test out new technologies prior to deployment on campus. 
H-130C is our larger conference room with seating for up to 18, and has a 
small kitchenette with a toaster oven and refrigerator.  Consultants are wel
come to use the kitchen facilities to refrigerate or warm meals.   
Please note that this area may not be accessible to student staff in the even
ing hours. 
Student Consultant Orientation 
             Module 2 Test 
 
 
1. The BITS offices are located in: 
         A) The Wabtech Foundation Computing pavilion. 
         B) The GE Foundation Computer Center. 
         C) The Hammermill Building's ground floor. 
         D) The Hammermill Building’s first (upper) floor. 
         E)  B and D. 
 
2.    Computer support in faculty offices is provided primarily by: 
         A)  The staff assistant in the respective department 
         B)  Student Technicians 
         C)  Members of the Nick Silka’s support group 
         D)  None of the above 
         E)  B and C. 
 
3. A call comes into a Consultant Help Desk from a member of  
        faculty, staff, or administration.  You cannot resolve the problem. 
        You should: 
         A) Panic, and run screaming out into the night.  
         B) Give the caller a tech support web address 
         C) Transfer the call to the Service Desk IT Manager.  
         D) Transfer the call to the BITS Administrative Assistant 
         E)  Submit an IT Support Incident ticket on the caller’s behalf to 
              document the problem in the Service Now incident tracking system.  
              Use the https://behrend.psu.edu/ithelp page and select a topic 
              from the “I need help in My Office” area.  
 
4. Additional cases of paper for the BITS lab laser printers      
        are stored: 
         A) At the maintenance garage, call them for more 
         B) At the Copy and Print Center (CPC), call them for help 
         C) In the Computer Center H134a Supply Storeroom, help yourself 
         D) I guess we’re just “out”.  Sorry 
 
          
PAGE 20 
Student Consultant Orientation Module 3  
Network connectivity in the Residence Halls is provided exclusively via a pair 
of wireless networks.   
Phones, tablets, laptops and any other device that CAN connect to the PSU 
WiFi SSID….MUST connect to that resource.   
All other iOT devices, such as gaming consoles, smart TV’s, personal assis
tants, etc, MUST connect to the RoomGear network.  Note:  Google Home 
devices are not compatible with the RoomGear resource.  
Visit: https://roomgear.psu.edu 
Click on the “Register your roomgear here” button and log-in with your Access 
Account User ID and Password.  Select “Create Device” and fill out the fields 
for Owner Name (PSU  Login ID. Ex: abc123), Device Name, and MAC Address 
and click on “Create Device”. 
Note that with RoomGear, once a device is registered, it will immediately con
nect in any Residence Hall location that has that network available.  You can 
move a device between rooms or between buildings, seamlessly.  
As mentioned above, laptops, phones, and tablets that CAN connect to PSU 
WiFi MUST connect to PSU Wifi.  Although they can be registered in 
RoomGear, they will not have access to the network.  
When on the RoomGear network, your device will need to have DHCP enabled 
to receive network information from Penn State.  If you need to configure your 
iOT device for DHCP access, we recommend that you refer to your device’s 
manufacturer’s web site for instructions.    
Residence Hall Network Help Desk Support 
Residence Hall Network support is provided by the Residence Hall Network 
Technicians (ResTechs) who work out of the Hammermill building.  ResTechs 
work hand-in-hand with Help Desk Consultants to provide support for our on
campus residents.  All calls for support should be directed to the 814-217
4357 number.  Online requests for support will use the behrend.psu.edu/
 ithelp web page.  In the Student category, select Residence Hall student and 
complete the form.  See Module 6 for more SNOW details.   
Due to the limited availability of the ResTechs, Student Consultants should 
feel comfortable assisting on-campus residents with their connectivity or gen
eral computer problems.  Please be sure to carefully document the problem 
in any related SNOW ticket as well as any attempted corrective measures so 
the ResTechs can easily pick-up where the Consultants have left off.   
ResTechs work M-Th, 6:00 PM—9:00 PM and have a daily duty list that in
cludes a walk-through of all buildings that have printers, lab environments, or 
collaborative work stations. During these walks, the environments will be 
inspected, printer paper checked and filled as needed, and SNOW tickets will 
be generated for any device found offline, damaged, or otherwise in need of 
support.  In-room student support visits will be coordinated with the client 
during the Tech’s working hours.  
